README.md, before:

# drakkar2025-demo-swot-ocean
Material for the on-site activity devoted to SWOT satellite data during https://drakkar2025.sciencesconf.org

## Jupyter Notebooks

The repository contains two notebooks:

1. **`SWOT_movies_CalVal.ipynb`**  
   Demonstrates how to read SWOT L3 data from an S3 bucket and how to create a video from the SWOT data swaths over the crossover regions.

3. **`Wavenumber_spectra_CalVal.ipynb`**  
   Demonstrates the use of the `widetrax` library to compute Wavenumber spectra during the CalVal period and in your region of Interest.

## Installing packages

Before running the notebooks, you’ll need to install a couple of libraries:

1. **Install `pyinterp`**  
   `pyinterp` is required for the functionality of the notebooks. Without it, other libraries may not work properly.  
   To install `pyinterp`, follow the detailed steps outlined in the [official documentation](https://cnes.github.io/pangeo-pyinterp/setup.html).  

2. **Install `widetrax`**  
   Once `pyinterp` is installed, you can proceed to install `widetrax` using `pip`. Simply follow the instructions provided [here](https://widetrax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/overview.html#installation).

## SWOT data
The SWOT data provided for this session is currently freely accessible but will move to private access after the workshop.
To continue using SWOT data after the session, please ensure you have a valid account with the relevant data provider.
Below are links to the providers’ websites, where you can create an account if you don’t already have one:  
- [Aviso](https://www.aviso.altimetry.fr/en/home.html)
- [EarthData (PODAAC, OBDAAC, ...)](https://www.earthdata.nasa.gov/eosdis/science-system-description/eosdis-components/earthdata-login)
- [CMEMS](https://data.marine.copernicus.eu/register)
- [Theia](https://sso.theia-land.fr/theia/register/register.xhtml)
- [ECMWF](https://accounts.ecmwf.int/auth/realms/ecmwf/login-actions/registration?client_id=cms-www&tab_id=mPXofltNksc)

> **Note:**  
> It is not mandatory to register for each provider, only for those you will actually fetch data from.

Commit message:

Added visual link for regions.

README.md, after:

# drakkar2025-demo-swot-ocean
Material for the on-site activity devoted to SWOT satellite data during https://drakkar2025.sciencesconf.org

## Jupyter Notebooks

The repository contains two notebooks:

1. **`SWOT_movies_CalVal.ipynb`**  
   Demonstrates how to read SWOT L3 data from an S3 bucket and how to create a video from the SWOT data swaths over the crossover regions.

3. **`Wavenumber_spectra_CalVal.ipynb`**  
   Demonstrates the use of the `widetrax` library to compute Wavenumber spectra during the CalVal period and in your region of Interest.

## Installing packages

Before running the notebooks, you’ll need to install a couple of libraries:

1. **Install `pyinterp`**  
   `pyinterp` is required for the functionality of the notebooks. Without it, other libraries may not work properly.  
   To install `pyinterp`, follow the detailed steps outlined in the [official documentation](https://cnes.github.io/pangeo-pyinterp/setup.html).  

2. **Install `widetrax`**  
   Once `pyinterp` is installed, you can proceed to install `widetrax` using `pip`. Simply follow the instructions provided [here](https://widetrax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/overview.html#installation).

### **Note**

The coordinates of the regions we’ll be working with are stored in the following [GEOJSON file](notebooks/CalVal_Crossover_regions.geojson), which will be used in both notebooks.  

## SWOT data
The SWOT data provided for this session is currently freely accessible but will move to private access after the workshop.
To continue using SWOT data after the session, please ensure you have a valid account with the relevant data provider.
Below are links to the providers’ websites, where you can create an account if you don’t already have one:  
- [Aviso](https://www.aviso.altimetry.fr/en/home.html)
- [EarthData (PODAAC, OBDAAC, ...)](https://www.earthdata.nasa.gov/eosdis/science-system-description/eosdis-components/earthdata-login)
- [CMEMS](https://data.marine.copernicus.eu/register)
- [Theia](https://sso.theia-land.fr/theia/register/register.xhtml)
- [ECMWF](https://accounts.ecmwf.int/auth/realms/ecmwf/login-actions/registration?client_id=cms-www&tab_id=mPXofltNksc)

> **Note:**  
> It is not mandatory to register for each provider, only for those you will actually fetch data from.
